mean missing chris too but i think he
may have a
thing to do welcome everyone to this
week's ipld
sync meeting it's october the 3rd 2020
um and as every week we go over the
stuff that we've
worked on in the past week and then um
might and then we go over the stuff that
uh
yeah is on the agenda if there's any
action items
um cool so um yeah
i start with myself this week
i actually so where do i have to take
but
this video i actually got a plenty of
time to work when i i'm really ipoli
stuff
most notable the
last marty hash stuff it's currently
in a library
called tiny multi-hash but the plan
certainly is to get it upstream so this
kind of like agreed upon so it will go
upstream
it's just a matter of time they are
still i want to improve still
their documentation a bit um
and yeah fix some minor things but um it
should be really soon
and on the multi-format stuff in
javascript there's
also plenty of stuff going on because um
aching brain
is currently working on moving the code
from using node buffers to using
um you in
eight arrays instead and it's called of
course
it's a breaking change for the whole api
and all the libraries because we
really um yeah have then unit 8 arrays
moving and moving out
it's not as bad for the node.js users
because
node.js buffer is also a un8 array
so you can at least pass in a buffer but
you will get a new and 8 array out
so if you want to use it again as a
buffer you have to convert it yourself
but that's ongoing and i mostly review
this stuff
um but i have actually one request for
rod that because there's an open pr on
jscid with the breaking change
and it would be good to get a thumbs up
for this pr
yeah i will post it in the notes
later on um because i basically thought
at least i want to get the thumbs up
from the ipald
team and you want to it's kind of like
blocking him from other changes so it
would be great if you could do it
too on your day because um
i told him that tomorrow his day so he's
on in the uk
um he probably will have to get the
approvals
as i don't expect any major blockers um
cool um yeah that's all
i have so it's renaming
cid dot buffer to cid dot bytes
yes that's gonna hurt
is there a reason for that uh yeah
because we thought we'd do a breaking
change anyway and
this this way it really really blows up
quickly so um uh because if you just hit
the buffer stuff so
basically it's just okay how is it
breaking change otherwise
and it's a breaking change because it
doesn't return buffers anymore so
basically the problem would be that the
buffer that the buffer property
would return not a buffer anymore but
are you an array anymore
i'll buy it i'll buy it like uh having
dealt with this this
in the past like with a value type
change like this it's better just be
able to give people
an error rather than have it work most
of the time until they try to
access a method that's not there like
it's
it is better like no no i mean we should
move the js multi-formats the id
to use bytes then like as soon as
possible
and deal with that change in in all the
difficulty format stuff because we're
using dot buffer even though it's a
unity array
okay yeah
okay so if you so certainly if you have
major concerns please put
post on the pr and then we we can also
play it so it's not like uh like you
have to agree
you don't have a choice it's really like
uh i want you in
input on it so um yeah to make it yeah i
i commented um i think that we should
add some other properties that are going
to make the future migration easier as
well
um but in general like it's a good
change we should do it
um okay so um
oh so we can add that integer code
property as well
exactly yeah and uh they can and accept
them in the constructor
yeah that's a good idea to do it now if
we get a song as we're breaking stuff
yep yep and and both would work for a
while so people can migrate a little bit
more
like gradually yeah i think like
i think um alex would want to make this
change as minimal as possible but i
agree that we
i agree that we should introduce those
as well so i guess the trade-off will be
that so
you see if if you are not happy with the
bytes change and he's not happy with the
other changes we just do both in
compromise yeah
that's that's
[Laughter]
i will tell you for sure
um but so yeah um cool
um
cool and next on my list is right
okay um
right so uh the bulk of my week was
spent in the amt
um crocking what it's what this one's
doing
and how it's what the implications are
writing docs for it
having discussions about it uh filing
some bug reports and some pull requests
just to fix some very minor things um
still haven't quite quite finished those
i'm because we don't have a spec for
this
it's i'm ending up writing
spec style docs in the thing itself
but i've also said that i will probably
just write a spec doc for it so
uh i'm sort of still working my way up
the stack of
docs um
they i keep on saying to people about
this one that the the trade-offs are
much more interesting than in the hampt
and you
and you would have a much bigger impact
um by tuning parameters with this one
um so you can push it into really
perverse directions
depending on the parameters and the
input types and the usage style
whereas a hemp is a lot more forgiving
because you've got the hash to
randomize things whereas this one you
know you can
you can abuse it and
[Music]
make some really odd shaped trees and
also some very s
lots of small blocks if you if you
really do have sparse data
um very sparse then you can have lots of
little blocks and um
i think that's worth documenting in it
i'm trying to do it in a very clear way
so that the
busy file coin folk can read and
understand and
think about the trade-offs they're
making um because i know they're
concerned about chain size right now
um so just got to finish that up
um now eric and i have been talking
about
a um test fixture system for cross
implementation use um and this has been
something that was on the agenda last
year that i was working on this is how
it got into car and zipcar in the first
place
and um never got back to it but now with
this
hampton amt work um
turns out firecoin needs this because
they have these implementers doing stuff
and there's um some confidence issues
with
the code and its portability and the
ability to implement things
safely so um we
we um planned out the basic
framework for what this thing might look
like how how we might put this thing
together
and um came up with a really interesting
um thing to shoot for fairly fairly
basic
um but should be fairly useful uh it
might be worth at some point
synchronizing with volca on this
um to think about whether how quickly a
rust one could be done as well
um so the idea is we had these simple
fixtures
uh where there's like a file per fixture
per case
and you could you know pick it out and
run it against your implementation but
you could also use it to you know debug
the process of where things break um
and yeah there's a bunch of interesting
features about this thing that's fairly
minimal as it is
so that's that's been on my mind since
we talked about that
and trying to clear the deck to get to
it one of the issues that i
uh had with that was at the revisit uh
the work i was in the middle of doing
with the car
the javascript car library migrating to
js
multi-formats which i i put down for the
time being
i need to get that finished so i
went back and started uh seeing what it
was like to pull in more of
michael's esm
migration stack into that
um to do yeah
but that and that's a whole rabbit hole
in itself that i've been avoiding
so now i can't avoid it um
so yeah that and then just a bunch of
minor adventures along the way just
other things that keep on coming up and
needing to be dealt with that are not
worth itemizing
that's me
quick question on that test framework
are you guys
factoring in all the unhappy path
testing or this for heavy pass
mostly so
so right now we are focused on um
minimum viable
thing so we we don't have as much
thought put into the negative it's much
more focused on the positive
um and we it's working initially on the
assumption that you
that it's not it's not going to replace
all of your tests for things
uh it's focused on a narrow use case of
your thing
has some basic testing that covers its
its common uh the things that you are
concerned about in your implementation
and probably some negative testing as
well
um and uh
this thing is this primary use case is
is
i didn't mention this but multi-block
data structures is what we're thinking
about although
i can see it's utility across other
kinds of ipld applications
but it's very much you have a
a thing that needs to behave in a very
particular way and have very
stable results so you execute this thing
against it
and implement these steps and you get
these results along the way
and in that you can also test
the perverse use cases so you can find
the edges and push to extremes
and see what it does in the cases where
you as the tester have identified that
this thing needs to be tested
what its edges are and so for example we
have that for the hampt
um we'll have some of that for the
hector anyway for my javascript
implementation that we can just
pull in and say using these parameters
and this these operations
you should get this really perverse
version of it
and it should handle it okay um
there there is space for doing things
like um
we expect you to be able to produce an
error if you push it this far
but we haven't thought enough very much
yet about the error case but
um the priority is to get this thing
working
and then maybe come back and start
considering how we add in some of the
negatives
yeah i like it it's hard to test some of
the stress cases
and some of the more specifics without
getting really implementation specific
and it's hard to like to get cross
language you can't test error conditions
in like a cross-language way like that's
going to be
really difficult not impossible you
can't even test stuff like this mutation
operation
should produce these blocks in this
order because you're assuming that the
implementation yields blocks as they get
created which is like not how all
implementations necessarily work
um it's mainly like if i give you these
operations to do
is this the new root hash of the of the
tree
right like that's that's the machine or
if i give you this tree of data
and tell you to do this mutation
operation on what is the new hash of the
tree like those are
those are really good and worthy tests
and get in most of the stuff but some of
the the crazier stuff
is going to have to be more
implementation specific yeah like in my
javascript stuff i test the number of
loads and saves
uh from the data store and that's not
something you want to do across
across implementation because everyone
will do something different
so you just want to test that the
results that yields are
consistent that's it
okay next on my list is peter
yes uh so another week
mostly burning falcon stuff the only
ipod related
portion there is that i started helping
candles a little bit with the
falcon specs of how
things fit together on the on the data
storage side
and we actually have more meetings with
him because i turned out there is a lot
to talk about
uh specking this stuff out um in the
meantime when i had a chance
i started looking into uh
what was a module for
the chanker part of dagger would look
like uh
and spent a little time over the weekend
trying to compile different things and
uh
yes combining gold wasn't is a little
bit fat but actually
it's it's much smaller than i than
anticipated uh to be
to be honest um
uh well another thing that i was working
on while trying to
uh talk through with janice
uh how our comp is
[Music]
calculating generated uh and while
working on the
uh dumb drop additions to actually
validate files
um uh starting with why it's the portion
that we're using right now so slow
and want to see what does it actually
take to implement it to
you know not be as slow as it is right
now and it actually is
quite possible to do it at like about
10 10 times faster than what it runs
as right now in rustville i haven't yet
uh
looked into uh like making this
arrest friendly in any way and it was
just an exploration
and yeah then then to some goal specific
uh issues with with streaming that
are also weird and i need to bear down
uh an example for maybe eric to look at
uh but this is also uh
when i when i have time from rethinking
falcon chains and and testing deals and
stuff
that's all i have
thanks nexus tony howdy y'all
um so i'm still working on uh did's
stuff uh did uh decentralize identifier
documents um
i managed to get um a subsection about
seabor and specifically dagsebor
ipld in it there is some work talking
about um
how those feedback that the the way i
wrote it um
mirrors a lot of dagsy bore constraints
including um
deterministic canonical mapping of
seabor and
keys as text so there's a lot of talk
right now about how to optimize
and more make more concise the key as
int
features of cbor without requiring
necessarily a red a separate registry
and so there's a lot of talk about um
sebor ld um
with an external uh dictionary
for keys mapping to
attributes uh there's a huge
vulnerability in that
in that like it's a mutable context that
describes the jason ld
and i have major reservations it was
talked about this week on the ietf
sibor session
and i'm trying to actually do some
working with
using extending the at contacts to
include a dag seabor where the dagsy
borer actually
is the mappings between the into
text fields for conciseness but uh
again i welcome any feedback uh they're
getting giving me a lot of pushback
as far as my my the the section saying
it's uh
uh this is out of left field it doesn't
have enough implementations
and like it's just seabor cbor there's
like tag
uh you can actually use tags uh it's
well represented
it's i'm not inventing any new anything
new anything new in cryptography
uh the dagsebor has uh seaboard tag 42
that's registered with diana that it's
it's there and actually battery's
included
uh and mostly i think it seems as though
there's just a lot of uh
corporate jousting going on about uh
implementations and
uh special interest and so i think
i do need to update the example i gave
in the document
to be in the seabor section to have a
very clear cose
key format but really working about the
mappings between
dag sebor and particular dag cos a
format
to pure cos a with the appropriate uh
tags and so i'm writing style library in
rust right now to do that
cool johnny are you in the loop on the
the folks
uh reading the dag cose jose codex
no i think uh there's uh a couple
different people i think uh certainly
the textile group i probably
are using this and then uh the three box
people i think uh
but this is like so christian let's fist
and i actually have talked about this
and wrote a paper together
years ago at the rebooting web of trust
and so i think there's a lot of similar
similarities to our
uh the the uh approaches
and i think mostly it gets into uh
standards and semantics for
interoperability and i think to make
sure we're all on the same page as far
as how we solve it
okay yeah um i just actually asked to
have a
call with them in the thread um that i
now can't find
that i wanted to add you to youtuber um
but yeah
yeah yeah um i do i want to get some
clarity on that i'm
starting i'm starting to question
whether or not the way that we've been
thinking about the representations the
data model are actually the right thing
and there may be something else that we
want to do here um
so i'd really like to just kind of hear
more about how they're using the format
and how we expect to be used in the wild
before we dig in
yeah i think i was just thinking that as
basically dag coz so
the hard thing is like uh it can cause a
be
a acyclic graph and i think that's
tricky
how do you prove that it's an
acyclograph
yeah that would be more conspiracy
yeah yeah i mean
yeah i don't know how you would
represent it but if you could sign the
cid then you know that it's signing a
dag
right yep and the way i get the paper i
showed you guys before
from the uh rebooting rubber trust in
buenos aires that was cancelled
was that i basically you in the tag 98
cos a signature you basically use a tag
as a b
string which is a c id and but it's a
little bit redundant
because you're in the algorithm section
you're saying let's say on a sha-2256
signature with ed edsa
but then the cid actually has redundant
information it's a base
uh pre prefixed plus a sha-2256 so
it's double encoding and i think also
i'm not sure as far as the that
the payload how long that payload can be
right now that would be like 55
bytes or something so you're doing the
shock 256 plus the pre
you know pre-pending all those different
separate bytes and so i think um
is that conformance is that proper like
will people
understand that that cid signed cos a
uh signature with tag 98 pointing to a
payload and tag
42 is that is that cool do people
understand that
yeah i see what you're saying like are
you signing the binary with the tag or
are you sending the binary before it's
tagged right yeah yeah just like
the cid right now i'm just finding the
full cid which includes all the
multi-base i mean you should i think you
should
yeah yeah like you're signing you're not
signing a dag unless you send the cid
if you're signing the multi-hash you're
just signing some data
like it doesn't have any meaning until
you you put the cid bit
for what it's worth we actually have
entries i think we already have them in
the multi-codec table or maybe they're
just pr's but
i think they got merged where uh there
is
it's not the cid will essentially pay uh
the hash of the payload plus the
signature of it as a single
cid it's like so 27 something bytes or
something like that you know with the
correct codec and so
there's a couple pr's but the ones and
multiformats got merged which are just
adding
the integer but then there are open pr's
that we're still
talking about in ipld for what the spec
for
the actual code actually um and those
like have a fair amount of like
unresolved questions
i'm just bringing it up as a it's
prioritized that somebody has done this
kind of
oh okay a different system and it's
already in the table the multi-codec
table
i believe so i'll i'll have to while
we're talking
i'd love to see that actually i didn't
know about that
okay okay thanks um
[Music]
next is eric
so i got more code gen news um we can
now generate
structs with tuple representations that
is done
kind of exciting because that is one of
the representations that's really
commonly used by folks who are sensitive
to the size of their serial data
and looking at you filecoin and lotus
people they've used them almost
everywhere it's like 99 of their code so
this is an important one to get for
their usage um and in particular it's
shown up in some hemp stuff that we've
been taking a look at that we mentioned
last week so we're
poking around that in this world there
cogen for unions with kind of
representation is also about 85
i'd expect to come out shortly but needs
a little bit more
error handling as always is actually the
trickiest part
um in a pleasant surprise the any type
that we've known for a while will need
but we
sort of bulked on specifying it as
thoroughly as we wanted to
a couple months back um it turns out
it's easier than we
thought it's just a kind of union and
that is about it
it turned out to be really easy to whip
up a union that has
all the basic types and then add a map
type
that is just a map of any to any and
any composers over this and so like of
course you've got a cycle in that
definition
but that turns out to be sort of fine so
um and i did a little prototype of code
jetting that and it
just kind of worked so that was a very
pleasant surprise
in the future there might be some some
more work to do there
um something that has come up as a
pattern is
we might need general configuration for
whether or not to use pointers when
assemblers
are embedded in other assembler types
to recap node assembler is an interface
in gli pld prime
and one node assembler usually embeds
the assemblers for all the child
types so that you can pre-allocate one
big slab of memory and it contains all
of the room that you're gonna need to do
all the data assembly matching
and all this state tracking that's
needed while you're in the middle of the
munching validity checks and so on and
so forth
and so by embedding all of these things
we get one giant allocation
and it goes fast but
that means if you have a cyclic type
definition like
any can be a union that contains
something called map that has a value
called unit or
any cycle if you embed the assemblers
for
any in the assemblers from map in the
assemblage for any of the assemblies
from maps
this would suggest that you're going to
have to reserve an infinitely large lab
memory of course this doesn't compile
so sometimes we need to say
i don't want to embed this assembler i
actually do want it to be a pointer
phones
right now there's a couple of cases
where that happens anyway um
in particular it happens to happen in
union and when they're configured
to use this memory layout internally
but this is kind of a coincidental
solution and it shouldn't be the only
solution so
some of the features are working
probably there but nothing's blocking on
it
soon
looked at test fixture stuff a little
bit as rod already talked about
uh michael bay um
and we've been quietly poking at what it
would be like to
implement a new hampton and go and use
some of this cogen stuff
but that's very early so we're gonna see
how that goes
and maybe i'll talk more about it later
but probably not too much today
and that's about it
cool looks like i'm up next yeah um
yeah so most the big thing was a lot of
progress on docs
so a lot more stuff there for the
javascript stack the tutorials
is getting pretty locked in um getting
the point where
other people need to to do stuff now um
i moved it over all the schema docs that
rod had written
and all that config stuff um interview
it took me a while to figure out those
sidebars ron
that's a weird format and view for those
um
but it all it's all nice now um yes
the dockside is really coming along um i
really now need contributions from other
people before i can move forward anymore
um and then i took thursday and friday
off um which i spent
polishing up dagdb and uh showed it to
many more people um it's surprisingly
like a lot is there
i i've forgotten how much was there
there's a lot of code integrity and a
lot of it works
um so people are starting to use it in
poke around now
i'm sure there are bugs but they're the
kind of bugs now that we're not going to
find
except by using it i mean there's 100
code coverage there's no there's no more
bugs to find that way
so yeah that's also looking pretty good
feedback so far has been really positive
um
i i showed some stuff to carson a while
back actually and he said that
a lot of what they were looking at doing
in threads v2 is actually already there
so we've been talking about what it
would look like to do
threads v2 on top of dagdb so that's a
fun conversation moving forward
and that's where we're at
cool um does
anyone have any agenda items
because i might have one because i'd
like to get a bit
er except that peter is a more important
one like just like
i want to know from michael and wrote
about the
cid changes like um because i will
probably talk with adam's tomorrow about
it so
is it like is it just properties we can
already populate and it's like basically
it's
more or less a change internal within
cid and you don't
need to care about a lot from the
outside or does it mean that you also
need to care from the outside and
basically reflect the
like all the dependencies that depend on
cid
rod's saying something that he's muted
it wouldn't be breaking changes it'd
just be feature editions
okay uh yeah the the things that i'm
saying to add are just feature editions
because
they are features that you need to
migrate to in the future so there's no
breaks
yeah there's breaks when you migrate
to the next one but yeah but like like
do i so if i record recalculate for
example the code
the code thing so it is basically then
just populated
when you so we clearly use strings but
we have the code from somewhere so we
will just like when you create this
id we would just populate the yeah
cohabit anyway yeah yep yep i mean you
can look up the string by code from the
multicolored table because you have the
whole thing
and the same in the constructor when you
take an image or you can just convert it
to the string and keep the string
behavior there
but at least the external usage you know
you can migrate to the new forms
so the logic for the constructor might
be a tiny bit awkward
but it's not it's not super fancy it's
just because you've got
you'll have multiple numbers then you'll
say you'll need to switch on
so you've got the version codec will
need to switch on
number and string but you should look at
that code the
in the old cid it's it's a little
i don't know if it's going to be easy or
hard but it's like a little bit more
complicated than that they're there
that's what i'm saying checking the
number of arguments and yeah yeah yeah
that's why i'm saying it's good it's not
going to be just a simple matter of
exposing a property it's like
a little bit of algorithmic hacking
there
well in the prop in the in the exposed
property you can just use a getter
and just do it when you need it um
okay so so what will so it will be
a break well it will be an addition
on the constructor but it will still
work with the old
one so basically it should not break
anything yeah what i'm
wondering is could we like could we do a
1.0 release
without those things and add them in a
1.1 release or something
you you could but like the whole point
of getting them in is that when you do
the breaking change you can message
by the way you may just want to if
you're going through and converting all
your code to use buffers you may also
just want to use these code properties
instead
and instantiate this way because that's
going to be really nice
it would be really nice to have them the
same functionality in both libraries
yeah yeah yeah yeah it's it's it's not
like a it's not like a sember thing
like issue it's really just like a
timing issue like you want to be able to
message it all at once
because people are going to be in that
code migrating to to you and hater
anyway
and then because if you push out if you
pushed out a version that just did
alex's changes then
you could easily just sit on that
version and you'd be fine
mostly but then you'd you'd have an
extra level of pain if you wanted to
migrate to the newest deck and
you hadn't started that work but this
gives you the optionality to start that
work at any point
so you can at any point you can say oh
maybe we should switch to
integer multi codecs and um you can do
that with the old library that would be
really good
okay so the okay so the so but the point
would be that the so as it has so many
dependent like
it's a huge dependency tree in js you
know
and yeah yeah so it will take a long
time until people can actually use
the cid so um
i mean so if we do if we would do a
release tomorrow
you can't really use the code base
because you don't have all the other
dependencies that need buffers and so on
basically what i'm saying is we have
still a lot of time to implement
uh 1.1 release because you can't use it
anyway
like no upstream dependency could use
the new cd version tomorrow so folker
i'll put it this way so that that repo
doesn't have automated releases
uh on each check-in so like we could
merge that
pr and wait but like when you put out
the major breaking release version
we may want to get this code in before
that because that's when it'll be
messaged
right the problem is that it basically
blocks alex
hard like he basically basically it's
done
it's basically it's it's blocking
tag pb and therefore unix fs
and therefore ipfs
okay all right whatever
so let me how about how about i try and
put something in today and if i fail
then you can go ahead and release but
i'll try and get a pr up today that
does it and then you can then we can
shorten the time frame yeah so even like
even if we basically did
halfway done and i like basically
it's almost done in small things i can
also fix those let me see
so if we talk about the days range
that's totally fine but
it sounds like well we will do it
eventually sometime then that's too long
because i really don't want to
um it's not a big check it really isn't
a big change it's okay
this is the tedium of doing it yeah and
the problem is that i'm not really like
not that much into the details of the
new stuff so if yeah
if you do it god that's totally fine and
then yeah i'm happy and yeah so let's
try this and then and just test
typescript definition and it's yeah it's
tedious
okay now cool yeah yeah that's that's
perfect then okay
um peter you wanted to say something i
very quickly oh yes uh yeah so
this is an idea that i had like
about a week ago and i just want to kind
of like solidify
that we want to do this going forward
um i realize johnny's here uh like don't
be alarmed what i'm proposing does not
actually affect what you're doing
directly so um we seem to be running
into
a problem where across the ecosystem
like
in in go in rust uh i don't know what
the story in javascript is probably also
similar
where we have these cyborg encoders and
decoders which we have a hell of a time
cursing to actually
do the right thing for dexhibor being
more strict more
more resilient more this more that uh
and
it seems that we are basically
handicapping ourselves by
saying that stuff is based on sibor or
wars
adding cybor as part of the name so
several times there it was floated that
we should have a different um
like a different better
uh format for objects
uh sorry for uh for uh for nodes
whatever you want to call it
for blocks um
my thing is that we should call it
something that does not have any
connotation neither with json another
neither with civil war with no with xml
what what whatever you want yesterday
completely different name
so that nobody implementing this gets
the idea like well i'll just reuse this
library that i have over here in my
language already and i'll just
get it you know fix the things i
think are important and they'll be done
that was kind of what i wanted to
surface there is not really a good place
to document that
there is a thing of thought so yeah
i mean when we look at doing the new
block format we'll come up with a name
that is very
unique it would be fun it'll probably
start with ip
something
but yeah yeah no um yeah
this this like is this is a general i
mean
yeah wrangling the the block format to
do the right thing
is pretty difficult i think that like
seymour was definitely the right choice
at the time that it was made and it's
probably still the right choice right
now
um but we know we now know enough about
how that format works and how to write
formats that
it would make sense to do our own block
format in the future like it's just not
it's becoming clear and clear that like
that would be really
it's not nice that sibor is a bad format
it's that
the nomenclature around this is
sometimes
drastically miscommunicative because it
causes people to bring all sorts of
baggage with
yeah and like assume that certain forms
of extension
are going to work when they absolutely
are not that's the really problematic
one
format whenever we want but like that's
not the entire issue
either i mean so so much of this though
is that like we have an existing form
and we're trying to make it
deterministic and that's a really
painful thing to do
like taking an existing format and item
determinism is just like not fun
and and we kind of found all the corners
of that now or at least i hope that we
found all of them
um but this will like continue to come
up especially with people doing
blockchain work i think that like this
is most visible when you're doing
blockchain
work because you always have to be
agreeing on the same serialization
um like i'm not actually worried about
the deserialization and being loose on
dc realization i'm only worried about
being strict on serialization
um and the bugs like where these bugs
present themselves are so difficult to
test for
and so like problematic um
yeah it's it's like not going to be good
like i think that
yeah it's very clear that at some point
we were we are going to need to write a
block format and we're going to need to
really think about this
really hard um
but yeah we're stuck with what we got
for now yeah
but i think that like though the the
cool thing about the whole thing is that
you can have your own block format
basically so i think it's like
like we should at least then do two
different ones
like at the same time
like because that you basically then end
up with
oh you basically optimize it for you
either optimize the format or you
optimize like ipld or the stuff around
it to a single format which is totally
not the point of aprild
oh so you should have basically formats
which are different
so you basically have still like yeah
i mean that's basically what dag.json is
like nobody's really using they json i
think like they should
we could also still use sibo for it like
having
see seaboard as this other format that
that is difficult to deal with
but yeah yeah like
yeah yeah yeah whatever new block format
that we do it should
not do anything outside of the data
model it should do anything you can't do
indexing boards
just be like a little bit more efficient
a little bit easier to
ensure determinism like all of that
stuff it shouldn't
it shouldn't be anything that you
absolutely have to use like dixie versus
don't work everywhere
the stack should assume that
yeah i totally agree even having
uh as a byproduct having normal cyber
libraries being able to decode that
would be fine it's just we really can't
advertise because it
leads us to uh what uh what rat was
saying i i think it was tuesday like
oh we're going to do super strict or
something like that
you can't do a super strict like with
existing libraries you need
new lips for that i mean it also
shouldn't be underestimated
there have been some good um maybe
things to study where people have
proposed like
t json for types json and it was
like json plus some annotations but they
made a clear point
calling it something else and then
describing clearly the ways in which you
can parse it
as regular json but like that whole i
can parse it as this old format you're
familiar with was like
a separate clause under its own h2
heading right
after they had a name that was like this
is something new
well isn't that how like jason ld
algorithms work and
and wouldn't it be because as i
understand it when you you're storing
the block as
seabor it's actually it's not ordered
it's basically just byte and whatever
the
convenient ordering is but it's actually
when you uh
read dereference and read and then your
you're transforming it back in like into
a human readable format like json
that's when you actually perform the
term deterministic mapping
ordered as lowest bytes um
right no no no it has to
okay because i think that that could be
part of it which is actually like
well when you're deserializing it you're
applying a particular ordering algorithm
or you're conforming to the specific
um algorithmic uh format
that actually you're part you're
applying to that
during the transformation process yeah
i mean like the the issues that we run
into right are like
what are they so there's one is the map
ordering stuff so like not everybody
actually implements the map ordering
correctly uh we are now everywhere but
like a lot of
we found that a lot of them don't um
because it's kind of like a weird corner
of the spec
and then the other one is the um integer
type stuff
where um it says that you should always
be using the the smallest representation
um and a lot of people don't um i think
part of this too is like it's not even
what you're saying peter where like
people pull their seaboard library and
use it to do whatever it's literally
people don't even implement all of
seabor
they implement like the features in
seaboard that they care about in this
thing
and then like that's it and so it's like
incredibly naive and specific
um and that that's what they think a lot
of issues
or they implement more they implement
like uh unlimited lists
and you know and things like that but
but to join johnny's point it's not
about
what you can deserialize it's it's
always about what's on disk because
what's on disk is what's on the network
and what's on the network is
what you can validate whether you are
being attacked right now or you actually
got the right cie
this all happens before you decode
anything so all of this
is super important at right time
i mean the nice thing about doing a new
block format is that we can basically
front load all the links up front and so
you can get all the links out without
parsing a whole block so that's really
cool uh but also
it just would like not be as easy to
write these naive implementations
because you have to do a bunch of
upfront work to understand the block on
that
so people like would not be writing a
lot of half fake libraries for
serialization
serialization i think that would be nice
adding like some some application
specific compression in there too would
really help like
it should just be like a little bit hard
to not implement the whole thing
i think that would be great
yeah i i saw that in the ietf call this
week which is actually there's a lot of
prefix compression it's actually like in
a rumped
the first uh byte in the array actually
like like a bunch of iuis or uris are
actually all starts with a very similar
thing so you can compact that
and basically like uh as yeah so it's
but that
i don't know that would be a
deterministic
way of doing it so no you can definitely
ensure determinism that way
like that's yeah you just have to to
ensure the ordering when you when you
front load them
yeah it's totally doable we run into
that all the time we should really
do that they guess for like the dexter
stuff that we need we should pro like uh
pro like i think brought it did it all
pretty probably that
in implementation so implementing really
only the zebra that we need for
tag cbo would be interesting like not
implement
for example like for example take
support would be just
it just supports one tag like it doesn't
even need proper
tag parsing but just like hard coded
take
42 because i think then it's not
it should be pretty anymore it's not a
deck anymore it's a link
yeah yeah yeah yeah but but it like
the the code because like if you only
lose those features
cbor is not that difficult to to read or
write basically if you only do the stuff
that we need it would be interesting
like how long it takes to
implement it just for us go javascript
you know java python or whatever
you don't need the other map keys and
stuff either yeah exactly
yeah yeah it's probably pretty simple um
i probably would i would probably try it
i guess
can can we kill the video i have like
one last thing at the end
of
yes then i would close the meeting
goodbye everyone
awesome